Kubernetes jhipster aws (#1195)
oktadeveloper/okta-blog: _source/_posts/2022-06-19-kubernetes-jhipster-aws.md

- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/): you’ll need to have both **Docker Engine** and **Docker Compose** installed (If you install the Docker desktop, this will automatically install both. On Linux, if you install Docker Engine individually, you will have to also [install Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)) separately.
- [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/): you’ll need a Docker Hub to host the Docker images so that EKS can pull them.
- [Java 11](https://adoptopenjdk.net/): this tutorial requires Java 11. If you need to manage multiple Java versions, SDKMAN! is a good solution. Check out [their docs to install it](https://sdkman.io/installit).
- [Okta CLI](https://cli.okta.com/manual/#installation): you’ll use Okta to add security to the microservice network. You can register for a free account from the CLI.
- [Amazon Web Services](https://aws.amazon.com/free): sign up for an AWS account.
- [AWS CLI](https://aws.amazon.com/cli/): Amazon Web Service CLI

> - [eksctl](https://github.com/weaveworks/eksctl): you'll use this ot create your cluster on EKS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [eksctl](https://github.com/weaveworks/eksctl): you'll use eksctl to create your cluster on EKS
```

    enableHibernateCache false
    serverPort 8081
    serviceDiscoveryType eureka
  }
  entities Blog, Post, Tag
}

application {
  config {
    baseName store
    reactive true
    packageName com.okta.developer.store
    applicationType microservice
    authenticationType oauth2
    buildTool gradle
    databaseType mongodb
    prodDatabaseType mongodb
    devDatabaseType mongodb
    enableHibernateCache false
    serverPort 8082
    serviceDiscoveryType eureka
  }
  entities Product
}

entity Blog {
  name String required minlength(3)
  handle String required minlength(2)
}

entity Post {
  title String required
  content TextBlob required
  date Instant required
}

entity Tag {
  name String required minlength(2)
}

entity Product {
  title String required
  price BigDecimal required min(0)
  image ImageBlob
}

relationship ManyToOne {
  Blog{user(login)} to User
  Post{blog(name)} to Blog
}

relationship ManyToMany {
  Post{tag(name)} to Tag{post}
}

paginate Post, Tag with infinite-scroll
paginate Product with pagination

microservice Product with store
microservice Blog, Post, Tag with blog

deployment {
  deploymentType kubernetes
  appsFolders [gateway, blog, store]

>   dockerRepositoryName "andrewcarterhughes"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  dockerRepositoryName "{your-docker-repository-name}"
```

This is the Spring Cloud Config file that the JHipster registry will serve to the entire microservice network.

`kubernetes/registry-k8s/application-configmap.yml`

```yaml
data:
  application.yml: |-
    ...
    spring:
      security:
        oauth2:
          client:
            provider:
              oidc:
                issuer-uri: https://<your-okta-domain>/oauth2/default
            registration:
              oidc:
                client-id: <client-id>
                client-secret: <client-secret>
# app specific configuration
jhipster-registry.yml: |-
  ...
```

You also need to configure the registry to use OAuth. In the `kubernetes/registry-k8s/jhipster-registry.yml` file, add `oauth2` to the values under `SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE` (as shown below).

`kubernetes/registry-k8s/jhipster-registry.yml`

```yaml
spec:
  containers:
    - name: jhipster-registry
      env:
        - name: SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE
          value: prod,k8s,oauth2
```

## Create an Amazon Elastic Kubernetes (EKS) cluster

> Now you are going to create the EKS cluster on AWS using the [eksctl](https://eksctl.io/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you are going to create the EKS cluster on AWS using the [eksctl](https://eksctl.io/) CLI.
```

If everything is good, `control-c` to stop forwarding the registry. Forward the gateway and open it.

```bash
kubectl port-forward svc/gateway -n demo 8080
```

Open http://localhost:8080

You'll see the front page of the demo application.

{% img blog/kubernetes-jhipster-aws/jhipster-demo-front.png alt:"JHipster front page" width:"1000" %}{: .center-image }

Go to **Account** and **Sign in**.

If you are already logged into Okta, you won't have to log in again. Otherwise you'll be redirected to the Okta SSO sign-in page.

{% img blog/kubernetes-jhipster-aws/okta-sign-in.png alt:"Okta sign-in page" width:"400" %}{: .center-image }

Once you're authenticated, you'll be directed to the authenticated front page.

{% img blog/kubernetes-jhipster-aws/jhipster-authenticated.png alt:"Authenticated" width:"1000" %}{: .center-image }

To verify that the application works, try and create a product and a blog. Go to the **Entities** menu and click on **Product**. Click **Create a new Product** and fill in the form with dummy values. You should be able to successfully create a new product. Do the same thing with **Entities** and **Blog**. You should be able to create a blog and a blog post.

> Remember that the blog application uses a Ne04j database backend and the store uses a Mongo DB backend. You're accessing these services through the public gateway application, but this is forwarding the requests to the private services and their associated databases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remember that the blog application uses a Neo4j database backend and the store uses a Mongo DB backend. You're accessing these services through the public gateway application, but this is forwarding the requests to the private services and their associated databases.
```

---
layout: blog_post

> title: "Kubernetes Microservice on AWS with Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service"

Reviewer: The name "Kubernetes Microservice" doesnt sound right since Kubernetes doesn't care about micorservice or monolith. something like "Java Microservices on AWS with Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service" or even better "JHipster Microservices on AWS with Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service" would sound better and would also avoid the keyword repetition

Author: I changed it per your suggestion. Feel free to update the title or the description however you think might be more suitable.

author: andrew-hughes
by: contractor
communities: [java,devops]

> description: ""

Reviewer: description missing

tags: [java,jhipster,kubernetes,k8s,devops,microservices]

> tweets:

Reviewer: tweets?

Author: I don't usually finalize any of the metadata. I have no idea about the tweets.

Reviewer: @havi what is the normal step here?

Reviewer 2: @deepu105 Matt usually writes tweets for the contractors he works with. I can add the appropriate metadata and tweets here, no worries. It's the social image that's not my strong suit. Deepu, if you have the bandwidth, I could use some help creating an appropriate social img, uploading and adding it to the front-matter. Thx.

Reviewer: ok i'll add

- ""
- ""
- ""
image:

> type: awareness|conversion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
type: conversion
```

---

> In this tutorial, you'll use JHipster to build a microservice and deploy it to Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS). The Kubernetes microservice will use Java and Spring Boot for resource servers and Vue for the frontend. It will include multiple databases and database types: PostgresSQL, MongoDB, and Neo4j. You'll secure the service using OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect (OIDC) using Okta as a security provider. With Kubernetes secrets and `kubeseal`, you'll encrypt all of the secrets in the project configuration files. To generate the project, you'll use JHipster's generator and the generator DSL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you'll use JHipster to build a microservice stack and deploy it to Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS). The microservices will use Java and Spring Boot for resource servers and Vue for the frontend. It will include multiple databases and database types: PostgresSQL, MongoDB, and Neo4j. You'll secure the service using OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect (OIDC) using Okta as the OIDC provider. With Kubernetes secrets and `kubeseal`, you'll encrypt all of the secrets in the project configuration files. To generate the project, you'll use JHipster CLI and the JHipster Domain Language (JDL).
```

**Prerequisites**

Before you get started, install the required software listed below. You'll need to sign up for an Amazon Web Services account and a free Okta account (which you will be able to sign up for later using the Okta CLI). The Kubernetes cluster required to finish this tutorial **does not qualify for free tier on AWS**. However, **if you are careful about stopping and deleting the cluster** when not actively working on the tutorial, the cost should be very small, only a few dollars.

- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/): you’ll need to have both **Docker Engine** and **Docker Compose** installed (If you install the Docker desktop, this will automatically install both. On Linux, if you install Docker Engine individually, you will have to also [install Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)) separately.

> - [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/): you’ll need a Docker Hub to host the docker images so that Azure can pull them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/): you’ll need a Docker Hub to host the Docker images so that EKS can pull them.
```

- [Java 11](https://adoptopenjdk.net/): this tutorial requires Java 11. If you need to manage multiple Java versions, SDKMAN! is a good solution. Check out [their docs to install it](https://sdkman.io/installit).
- [Okta CLI](https://cli.okta.com/manual/#installation): you’ll use Okta to add security to the microservice network. You can register for a free account from the CLI.

> - [Amazon Web Services](https://aws.amazon.com/free): sign up for an AWS account.

Reviewer: You also need to install AWS CLI and eksctl

> - [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/): CLI to manage Kubernetes clusters. As of the time I was writing this tutorial, there was a bug in `kubectl` version 1.24 that results in an "invalid apiVersion" error. You can avoid this error by installing version 1.23.6.

Reviewer: JHipster CLI is also a requirement

For more info on the `kubectl` error, see [this issue](https://github.com/aws/aws-cli/issues/6920) on GitHub. 

The error looks like this:

```bash
2022-05-31 18:56:08 [✖]  parsing kubectl version string  (upstream error: error: exec plugin: invalid apiVersion "client.authentication.k8s.io/v1alpha1"
) / "0.0.0": Version string empty
```

On Linux, to install version 1.23.6, you can use the following commands.

```bash
curl -LO https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/v1.23.6/bin/linux/amd64/kubectl
sudo install -o root -g root -m 0755 kubectl /usr/local/bin/kubectl
```

For Windows and Mac, there are instructions on how to install specific versions on the [kubernetes docs pages](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/).

Just so you have a general idea of what you're going to do, the general steps in this tutorial are:

> 1. Generate the microservice applications and Kubernetes descriptor files using JHipster generator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Generate the microservice applications and Kubernetes descriptor files using JHipster
```

2. Build the apps and push the Docker images to Docker Hub

> 3. Configure the services to use Okta auth

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Configure the services to use Okta for OIDC authentication
```

> 4. Create an Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Create an Amazon EKS cluster
```

> 5. Deploy the Kubernetes stack to EKS (which will pull your Docker images and deploy them to AWS EKS)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Deploy the microservice stack to EKS (which will pull your Docker images and deploy them to AWS EKS)
```

6. Test the app

## Generate the application using the JHipster generator

> The JHipster generator makes it easy to bootstrap complex applications, including microservices with multiple services and data objects. You can read more about it in [the JHipster docs](https://www.jhipster.tech/creating-an-app/). In this tutorial, you are going to create a microservice using the JHipster generator JDL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The JHipster generator makes it easy to bootstrap complex applications, including microservices with multiple services and domain models. You can read more about it in [the JHipster docs](https://www.jhipster.tech/creating-an-app/). In this tutorial, you are going to create a microservice using the JHipster Domain Language.
```

This will generate a microservice with four services:

- JHipster registry
- JHipster API gateway
- Store
- Blog

> When you look at the DSL below, you might notice that there isn't a registry application listed. The [JHipster registry](https://www.jhipster.tech/jhipster-registry/) is a standard application in the JHipster microservice stack that doesn't need to be defined. It includes a Eureka server and a Spring Cloud Config server. The Eureka server is a [Spring Cloud Netflix](https://cloud.spring.io/spring-cloud-netflix/reference/html/) service discovery registry that allows services to find each other on the network. The [Spring Cloud Config](https://cloud.spring.io/spring-cloud-config/reference/html/) server allows the centralization of service configuration. You'll use it to centralize the Okta OAuth 2.0 and OIDC configuration, allowing you to configure all of the services to use the same OIDC application from the same configuration point.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you look at the DSL below, you might notice that there isn't a registry application listed. The [JHipster registry](https://www.jhipster.tech/jhipster-registry/) is a standard application in the JHipster microservice stack that doesn't need to be defined. It includes a Eureka server and a Spring Cloud Config server. The Eureka server is a [Spring Cloud Netflix](https://cloud.spring.io/spring-cloud-netflix/reference/html/) service discovery registry that allows services to find each other on the network. The [Spring Cloud Config](https://cloud.spring.io/spring-cloud-config/reference/html/) server allows the centralization of service configuration. You'll use it to centralize the Okta OAuth 2.0 and OIDC configuration, among other things, allowing you to configure all of the services to use the same OIDC application from the same configuration point.
```

The [JHipster API gateway](https://www.jhipster.tech/api-gateway/) is the front-facing, public face of the application. It has a Vue front-end and a PostgresSQL database backend. The gateway also includes features like load balancing and circuit breaking. Public requests to the service go through the gateway.

The store and blog applications are backend resource servers with MongoDB and Neo4j databases (respectively).

Create a file called `app.jdl` in the root directory for the project. Paste the contents below into the file. **You need to add your docker repository name** at the bottom in place of the placeholder `{your-docker-repository-name}`.

```bash
application {
  config {
    baseName gateway

>     reactive true

Reviewer: are they intended to be reactive? if so would be nice to mention that these are reactive microservices using the Spring Reactive stack. Also the Gateway will always be reactive so no need to specify

    packageName com.okta.developer.gateway
    applicationType gateway
    authenticationType oauth2
    buildTool gradle
    clientFramework vue
    prodDatabaseType postgresql
    serviceDiscoveryType eureka
    testFrameworks [cypress]
  }
  entities Blog, Post, Tag, Product
}

application {
  config {
    baseName blog
    reactive true
    packageName com.okta.developer.blog
    applicationType microservice
    authenticationType oauth2
    buildTool gradle
    databaseType neo4j

>     devDatabaseType neo4j

Reviewer: `devDatabaseType`, `prodDatabaseType`, and `enableHibernateCache` is not required for noSQL Dbs

Author: I removed them but I get an error:
```bash
Error during import-jdl: Error: When the databaseType is either 'mongodb', 'couchbase', 'cassandra', 'neo4j', the devDatabaseType and prodDatabaseType must be the same.
```

    prodDatabaseType neo4j
    enableHibernateCache false
    serverPort 8081
    serviceDiscoveryType eureka
  }
  entities Blog, Post, Tag
}

application {
  config {
    baseName store
    reactive true
    packageName com.okta.developer.store
    applicationType microservice
    authenticationType oauth2
    buildTool gradle
    databaseType mongodb

>     devDatabaseType mongodb

Reviewer: same as above, for noSQL these props are ignored so no need to specify

    prodDatabaseType mongodb
    enableHibernateCache false
    serverPort 8082
    serviceDiscoveryType eureka
  }
  entities Product
}

entity Blog {
  name String required minlength(3)
  handle String required minlength(2)
}

entity Post {
  title String required
  content TextBlob required
  date Instant required
}

entity Tag {
  name String required minlength(2)
}

entity Product {
  title String required
  price BigDecimal required min(0)
  image ImageBlob
}

relationship ManyToOne {
  Blog{user(login)} to User
  Post{blog(name)} to Blog
}

relationship ManyToMany {
  Post{tag(name)} to Tag{post}
}

paginate Post, Tag with infinite-scroll
paginate Product with pagination

microservice Product with store
microservice Blog, Post, Tag with blog

deployment {
  deploymentType kubernetes
  appsFolders [gateway, blog, store]
  dockerRepositoryName "{your-docker-repository-name}"

>   kubernetesNamespace demo

Reviewer: this seems to be missing props like below, while they are default its still nice to specify so user knows that those can be changed
```suggestion
  kubernetesNamespace demo
  serviceDiscoveryType eureka
  kubernetesServiceType LoadBalancer
```

[OR]

If you want to use kustomize configuration, then run the following command:
  bash kubectl-apply.sh -k

Use these commands to find your application's IP addresses:
  kubectl get svc gateway -n demo

INFO! Generator kubernetes succeed
Congratulations, JHipster execution is complete!
Sponsored with ❤️  by @oktadev.
```

If you look at the directories in your root project, you'll see four subdirectories.

```bash
├── blog
├── gateway
├── kubernetes
└── store
```

Three of the directories are the application projects for your services: blog, store, and gateway. Remember that the registry uses a stock image, so it doesn't need a local project. The fourth directory, kubernetes, holds the descriptor files for the kubernetes deployements (YAML files that tell Kubernetes how to deploy your applications from the Docker images).

If you looked in that directory, you'd see four subdirectories (as well as some other files).

```bash
├── blog-k8s
├── gateway-k8s
├── registry-k8s
└── store-k8s
```

These four directories hold the deployment descriptors for the Kubernetes services that correspond to the four applications in the microservice.

## Fix Eureka OUT_OF_SERVICE Error

> There is an issue with Eureka that currently requires a workaround. You can read about the issue on [Spring Cloud Netflix](https://github.com/spring-cloud/spring-cloud-netflix/issues/3941) and [Netflix Eureka](https://github.com/Netflix/eureka/issues/1398). Essentially what happens is that the app gets stuck as `OUT_OF_SERVICE` and Eureka fails to register when it comes back up. This only happens with the store in this microservice.

Reviewer: Thats strange, I didn't have such an issue on EKS with JHipster Registry (I did something similar last week on EKS for a [blog](https://github.com/oktadev/okta-blog/pull/1189)), may be the issue was present but the apps and registry restarted few times and got the right status as expected in k8s. Did you see if waiting for an extra minute or two worked?

Author: I can try again. I had to do this on Azure.

Author: You are right. This is unnecessary.

 * subsequent transitions to up to occur successfully.
 */
@Component
public class EurekaFix implements HealthIndicator {
    private static Logger LOG = LoggerFactory.getLogger(EurekaFix.class);

    private boolean applicationIsUp = false;

    /**
     * When we receive notification that the application has started, report that we 
     * are now in an up state
     */
    @EventListener(ApplicationReadyEvent.class)
    public void onStartup() {
        this.applicationIsUp = true;
        LOG.warn("Application has started, reporting to eureka that application is now available");
    }

    /**
     * Force ourselves into a down state while the application is starting, and transition us 
     * to an up state once we have started. Down should override out of service.
     *
     * @return down if we are not yet fully started, otherwise put us in an up state
     */
    @Override
    public Health health() {
        if (!applicationIsUp) {
            LOG.warn("Reporting application as down to eureka as application has not yet started");
            return Health.down().build();
        }
        return Health.up().build();
    }
}
```

> You also need to update the Kubernetes deployment definition for the store's headless MongoDB service. This fixes a problem with the store not being able to find the database. **This entry is at the bottom of the file.**

Reviewer: This issue is present so nice work with the fix

`kubernetes/store-k8s/store-mongodb.yml`

```yaml
# Headless service for DNS record
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
...
spec:
  type: ClusterIP
  clusterIP: None
  publishNotReadyAddresses: true  # <- ADD ME
  ...
```

## Use Jib to build the Docker images and push to your Docker Hub registry

> Kubernetes on AWS needs to be able to access your docker images. The easiest way to do this is to push them to your Docker Hub account (which you should have already signed up for, if you didn't already have one).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kubernetes on AWS needs to be able to access your Docker images. The easiest way to do this is to push them to your Docker Hub account (which you should have already signed up for, if you didn't already have one).
```
consistent capitalization

> Gradle and Jib make this super easy. In fact, you have the commands you need **in your console output**. You can copy and paste them from there and run them in the correct directories. You cannot copy and paste the commands from my terminal listing above without replacing the docker repository name.

Reviewer: link to Jib would be nice

Then, from the root project directory, open a Bash shell and run `okta apps create jhipster`. 

The default app name is fine. Or change it. Also accept the default redirect URIs.

My output looked like this:

```bash
Application name [kubernetes]: 
Redirect URI
Common defaults:
 Spring Security - http://localhost:8080/login/oauth2/code/okta
 JHipster - http://localhost:8080/login/oauth2/code/oidc
 Quarkus OIDC - http://localhost:8080/callback
Enter your Redirect URI(s) [http://localhost:8080/login/oauth2/code/oidc, http://localhost:8761/login/oauth2/code/oidc]: 
Enter your Post Logout Redirect URI(s) [http://localhost:8080/, http://localhost:8761/]: 
Configuring a new OIDC Application, almost done:
Created OIDC application, client-id: 0oa7pu3434DasvWSo4x7
Creating Authorization Server claim 'groups':
Adding user 'andrew.hughes@mail.com' to groups: [ROLE_USER, ROLE_ADMIN]
Existing group 'ROLE_USER' found
Existing group 'ROLE_ADMIN' found
|
Okta application configuration has been written to: /home/andrewcarterhughes/Development/okta/2022/aws-kubernetes/QA1/kubernetes/.okta.env
```

> This command creates an OIDC application on the Okta servers for you. It also creates a a `groups` claim on your authorization server and adds to groups: `ROLE_USER` and `ROLE_ADMIN`. The group names have `ROLE_` prefixed to them because of the way Spring Boot processes group names. You need these default groups for authentication to work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command creates an OIDC application on the Okta servers for you. It also creates a `groups` claim on your authorization server and adds to groups: `ROLE_USER` and `ROLE_ADMIN`. The group names have `ROLE_` prefixed to them because of the way Spring Boot processes group names. You need these default groups for authentication to work.
```

Remember the name of the OIDC application. You'll need to find it in the Okta Admin Console later. The `okta apps` command creates a config file named `.okta.env`. This should look something like the following.

```
export SPRING_SECURITY_OAUTH2_CLIENT_PROVIDER_OIDC_ISSUER_URI="https://dev-123456.okta.com/oauth2/default"
export SPRING_SECURITY_OAUTH2_CLIENT_REGISTRATION_OIDC_CLIENT_ID="0oa7pu3434DasvWSo4x7"
export SPRING_SECURITY_OAUTH2_CLIENT_REGISTRATION_OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET="09328uu098u4..."
```

> The Kubernetes microservice uses Spring Cloud Config to centralize configuration (this service is part of the JHipster registry). This means that you can configure the entire microservice to use Okta as an OAuth and OpenID Connect (OIDC) provider in a single place.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The microservices use Spring Cloud Config to centralize configuration (this service is part of the JHipster registry). This means that you can configure the entire microservice to use Okta as an OAuth and OpenID Connect (OIDC) provider in a single place.
```

Open `kubernetes/registry-k8s/application-configmap.yml`. Add the following at the end of the `data.application.yml` entry (before the `jhipster-registry.yml` entry), filling in the `issuer-uri`, `client-id`, and `client-secret` taken from the `.okta.env` file. 

This is the Spring Cloud Config file that the JHipster registry will serve to the entire microservice network.

`kubernetes/registry-k8s/application-configmap.yml`

```yaml
data:
  application.yml: |-
    ...
    spring:
      security:
        oauth2:
          client:
            provider:
              oidc:
                issuer-uri: https://<your-okta-domain>/oauth2/default
            registration:
              oidc:
                client-id: <client-id>
                client-secret: <client-secret>
# app specific configuration
jhipster-registry.yml: |-
  ...
```

> You also need to configure the registry to use OAuth. In the `kubernetes/registry-k8s/jhipster-registry.yml` file, add `oauth` to the values under `SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE` (as shown below).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You also need to configure the registry to use OAuth. In the `kubernetes/registry-k8s/jhipster-registry.yml` file, add `oauth2` to the values under `SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE` (as shown below).
```

`kubernetes/registry-k8s/jhipster-registry.yml`

```yaml
spec:
  containers:
    - name: jhipster-registry
      env:
        - name: SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE
          value: prod,k8s,oauth2
```

## Create an Amazon Elastic Kubernetes (EKS) cluster

> Now you are going to create the EKS cluster on AWS using the AWS CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you are going to create the EKS cluster on AWS using the [eksctl](https://eksctl.io/).
```

eksctl is not AWS CLI its a third-party tool

> You should have the AWS CLI installed already. Use the following command to create the Kubernetes cluster for the microservice. After you run the command, go get some coffee or lunch. This command is *slooooow*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should have the AWS CLI and eksctl installed and configured already. Use the following command to create the Kubernetes cluster for the microservice. After you run the command, go get some coffee or lunch. This command is *slooooow*.
```

```bash
eksctl create cluster --name okta-k8s \
--region us-west-2 \
--nodegroup-name okta-k8s-nodes \
--node-type t2.xlarge \
--nodes 2
```

**This will take several minutes to run.**

**This cluster costs money as long as it is running.** If you only keep it running for the hour or so you need to run the tutorial, the costs are small. **If you forget and leave it running for a month or two, it could cost a lot more. Don't forget to delete it when you are done!**

> You are using a managed cluster with EC2 nodes. You are not using the newer, Fargate managed clusters because as of right now there is a compatibility problem between Fargate and Eureka. See [this google groups thread](https://groups.google.com/g/jhipster-dev/c/148uESs6vns) and [this GitHub repository](https://github.com/jussiseppala/eurekafargatesample).

Reviewer: FYI: I was able to run with fargate profile, but I didn't use eksctl and created them using Terraform so not sure if there was a difference. I'll do some digging for my own learning purpose

Author: Oh, cool. It didn't work for me. Maybe the issue was fixed?

You can look at [the AWS docs on managed node groups](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/managed-node-groups.html) for more in-depth information. Basically, though, being managed means that you do not need to separately provision and register the EC2 instances in the node group. The EC2 instances and Kubernetes nodes are packaged together and managed as a unit. Unmanaged node groups allow you to separate the node group management from the EC2 instances, allowing for finer control but also requiring more direct involvement in instance management.

## Using AWS CloudFormation to troubleshoot problems

> If you have a problem, you can log into the AWS console and search for the CloudFormation tool. For example, my console ended with this non-specific error.

Reviewer: would be nice to mention what cloudformation is and that eksctl uses cloudformation to spin up the infra

2022-06-17 09:32:51 [ℹ]  to cleanup resources, run 'eksctl delete cluster --region=us-west-2 --name=okta-k8s'
2022-06-17 09:32:51 [✖]  waiter state transitioned to Failure
Error: failed to create cluster "okta-k8s"
```

When I logged into AWS and opened CloudFormation, I saw this on the console.

{% img blog/kubernetes-jhipster-aws/cloud-formation.png alt:"CloudFormation" width:"1000" %}{: .center-image }

The cluster was created successfully, but the node group failed. I clicked on the node group name. Then I selected the **events** tab. Scrolling down, I found the error.

{% img blog/kubernetes-jhipster-aws/node-group-create-error-cropped.png alt:"Node group create error" width:"1000" %}{: .center-image }

The error reads:

>Resource handler returned message: "Your requested instance type (t2.xlarge) is not supported in your requested Availability Zone (us-west-2d). Please retry your request by not specifying an Availability Zone or choosing us-west-2a, us-west-2b, us-west-2c. (Service: Eks, Status Code: 400, Request ID: 442805e0-f485-4503-a697-838dfbd690d0, Extended Request ID: null)" (RequestToken: 13e73586-c07b-6a2b-2209-a31bd1bc2560, HandlerErrorCode: InvalidRequest)

> I needed to add an additional flag to my command to specify an availability zone. If you look at [the AWS `eksctl` docs](https://eksctl.io/usage/creating-and-managing-clusters/), there's a note about this for the `us-east-1` region. This was the first time I'd run into it in the `us-west-1` region.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I needed to add an additional flag to my command to specify an availability zone. If you look at [the `eksctl` docs](https://eksctl.io/usage/creating-and-managing-clusters/), there's a note about this for the `us-east-1` region. This was the first time I'd run into it in the `us-west-1` region.
```

not an AWS tool

--nodegroup-name okta-k8s-nodes \
--node-type t2.xlarge \
--nodes 2
```

You may have to rename the cluster. I found that sometimes even through the cluster resources have been deleted, the name is still unavailable.

Perhaps you are wondering, if you got this error, why I didn't include the `--zones` flag in the original command. Was it just for the teachable moment? Not entirely. I wasn't sure if the availability in the zones is consistent enough to warrant including the specific zones in the original command.

## Deploy the JHipster Kubernetes microservice to EKS

Next you'll use `kubectl` to deploy the microservice to AWS EKS. Before you do that, if you haven't already, you should install a tool for monitoring the services. Both [k9s](https://github.com/derailed/k9s) and [Kubernetes Lens](https://k8slens.dev/) are great. Installing one of these tools isn't strictly necessary. You can do everything from the `kubectl` if you want, but life is short. Live a little. Use a GUI instead of the CLI. Step away from the `vim` and try an IDE. Nobody will know. You'll still be cool.

Open a Bash shell and navigate to the `kubernetes` subdirectory of the project.

> Run the following command to update the AWS Kubernetes configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the following command to update your local Kubernetes configuration with the AWS EKS cluster config.
```

```bash
aws eks update-kubeconfig --name okta-k8s
```

If you don't do this, you may see the following error.

```bash
Kubeconfig user entry is using deprecated API version client.authentication.k8s.io/v1alpha1. Run 'aws eks update-kubeconfig' to update.
```

Now you're ready to deploy the microservice. 

Run the following command (again, from the `kubernetes` subdirectory).

```bash

> ./kubectl -f

Reviewer: you can also use the bash script generated here by JHipster

```

> the CLI to check on the pods, you can use:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the CLI to check on the pods, you can use:
```
is there a missing word here?

```bash
kubectl get pods -n demo
```

Hopefully everything has a status of `running`. If not, something is wrong.

```bash
NAME                                  READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
blog-6896f6dd58-lzp5n                 1/1     Running   0          15m
blog-neo4j-0                          1/1     Running   0          15m
gateway-7f6d57765f-srb5d              1/1     Running   0          15m
gateway-postgresql-74dbc8c987-zf9n7   1/1     Running   0          15m
jhipster-registry-0                   1/1     Running   0          15m
jhipster-registry-1                   1/1     Running   0          15m
store-7bf788586b-6jq2f                1/1     Running   0          15m
store-mongodb-0                       1/1     Running   0          15m
```

> In K8s Lens, this looks like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In K8s Lens, here's what it looks like:
```
clarity

{% img blog/kubernetes-jhipster-aws/lens-status-green.png alt:"Lens status green" width:"1000" %}{: .center-image }

Another useful command is `describe` (I won’t replicate the output here). This is great for more detailed information for debugging.

```

> kubectl describe pods -n demo

Reviewer: IMO describe is much better suited to be used with individual resources as there will be less noise and easier to find things `kubectl describe <pod|service|...> <resourse-name> -n demo`

```

You can also tail logs of a specific pod using the following command.

```
kubectl logs <pod-name> --tail=-1 -n demo
```

To access the Eureka registry service, you need to forward the port.

```bash
kubectl port-forward svc/jhipster-registry -n demo 8761
```

> Open a browser and navigate to http://localhost:8761

Reviewer: you might have to login with Okta if not already done

To verify that the application works, try and create a product and a blog. Go to the **Entities** menu and click on **Product**. Click **Create a new Product** and fill in the form with dummy values. You should be able to successfully create a new product. Do the same thing with **Entities** and **Blog**. You should be able to create a blog and a blog post.

Remember that the blog application uses a Ne04j database backend and the store uses a Mongo DB backend. You're accessing these services through the public gateway application, but this is forwarding the requests to the private services and their associated databases.

## Protect sensitive configuration values using `kubeseal`

The microservice is working. The only thing left to do is to protect any sensitive configuration parameters that you don't want to check into a repository. In this case, the main value that needs to be protected is the Okta OIDC client secret (and the `ENCRYPT_KEY`, which, as you'll see in a moment, is used to encrypt the client secret but which itself will need to be encrypted using `kubeseal`).

>  In `kubernetes/registry-k8s/jhipster-registry.yml`, add an environment key-value pair (you can add it anywhere under the same `env` list that you edited earlier). Make up an encryption key. The longer the better.

Reviewer: you can also create an uuid using `uuid` command if available on the OS, Linux has it not sure about mac/windows

```yaml
- name: ENCRYPT_KEY
  value: <your-encryption-key>
```

Redeploy the Kubernetes configuration. If you are still port-forwarding the gateway, `control-c` to stop it. Run the following from the `kubernetes` subdirectory.

```bash
./kubectl-apply.sh -f
```

Port forward the registry.

```bash
kubectl port-forward svc/jhipster-registry -n demo 8761
```

Open http://localhost:8761

Go to **Configuration** and **Encryption**

Copy your client secret (from `kubernetes/registry-k8s/application-configmap.yml` or from the `.okta.env` file) and past it into the text field.

Click **Encrypt**.

{% img blog/kubernetes-jhipster-aws/encrypting-client-secret.png alt:"Encrypting the client secret" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

> Copy that value, including the `{cipher}` part, and past it back over the old value. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Copy that value, including the `{cipher}` part, and paste it back over the old value. 
```
typo

**Once you're done, delete the EKS cluster. If you don't do this, you'll keep getting charged for the AWS resources.**

```bash
eksctl delete cluster --region=us-west-2 --name=okta-k8s
```

It wouldn't hurt to log into the console and make sure all of the resources were cleaned up.

## AWS, Kubernetes, and Spring Boot Microservice is done!

In this project you deployed a JHipster microservice to AWS EKS. You used the AWS CLI to create the Kubernetes resources, and you used `kubectl` to deploy the applications to the Kubernetes pods. You also used Okta as an OAuth 2.0 and OIDC provider to secure the microservice. Finally, you properly encrypted all of the sensitive configuration values using a combination of JHipster registry encryption, Kubernetes secrets, and `kubeseal`. 

This project is based on two of Matt Raible's tutorials, which were helpful for me when I was writing it.

- [Reactive Java Microservices with Spring Boot and JHipster](/blog/2021/01/20/reactive-java-microservices)
- [Kubernetes to the Cloud with Spring Boot and JHipster](/blog/2021/06/01/kubernetes-spring-boot-jhipster)

If you liked this post, there's a good chance you'll like similar ones:

> - [Introducing Spring Native for JHipster: Serverless Full-Stack Made Easy](/blog/2022/03/03/spring-native-jhipster)

Reviewer: This post will go live today and will be very relevant https://developer.okta.com/blog/2022/06/22/terraform-eks-microservices
